The over credulous belief that people have on things like luck and supernatural influences is superstition. It depends upon the person, whether or not he wants to believe it.  But it is influenced upon a person by his family and the society. When even the wise old elders of the society believe in such things, a doubt surely arises in our mind about it, even if we don't want to believe it. Seeing these practices from childhood also heavily influences our perception towards them. They get so deeply ingrained in our brain that subconsciously it always affects our decision making. 
Superstitions generally have no meaningful reason. It can differ between the communities. The common superstitions that generally exist are do not go across a road if you see a black cat cross it first, do not cut your nails after sunset,   do not whistle inside the house,  twitching of left eye is bad omen, do not directly pass a chili to another person and so in. Listing them can go indefinitely. The general concept is that if these superstitious rules are not followed, it will bring bad luck. But it's not like following them will bring good luck. Practices of witch and witch doctors have always brought suffering to women and shame on the society. In situations like a medical emergency, if you see a black cat cross the road then it causes a lot of dilemma. These practices are taught since childhood and is very hard to ignore in adulthood. So this passes along the generations and can become a part of culture or tradition in a society. 
Generally, the non-believers say that these practices arose due to the circumstances in the past. Back when there was no electricity, it was safer not to cut the nails after dark as it could get in your food. Same goes for combing hair during night. Some of them could have a logical explanation in the past. But in the present, none of them have any reasons to be followed. 
Many people hold these social evils ideal as they are being practiced in the  name of religion. Since they  have no scientific explanation, its up to a person to choose whether to follow it or not. They take control over peoples life and can cause serious problems at times. So its best to stop following these acts and prevent the younger generation from learning them.